Rule 2: Anyone with the @nomic role is considered to be a player.
Rule 3: To keep the proposal channel tidy, voting is to be done using the :white_check_mark: or :no_entry_sign: emojis to symbolize a vote for or against a rules proposal respectively.
Rule 4: Only votes via emoji from Players are to be counted towards rules proposals being accepted or rejected.
Rule 5: The current rules of this Nomic are considered to be the ones in https://github.com/lare290/KAD_Nomic/blob/main/Rules. Any other rules claiming to be rules of this Nomic are considered to be only copies and thus not legally binding.
Rule 6: Create a channel which lists all active rules, maintained by a duly elected scribe.
Rule 7: The voting for any specific proposal is to take place during a 1 hour period, henceforth referred to as the voting period. During this time votes for and against the proposal may be cast and retracted at will, but at the end of this voting period the current totals of votes cast for and against the proposal are what are counted for the majority vote meant by rule 1. Additionally, if at any point a proposal has a 2/3 majority of the players voting for it, it passes immediately.
Rule 8: All Players are to be assigned three statistics -- henceforth "stats" -- entitled Health, Attack and Defense. These stats are to be initialized at the value 100 for the purpose of performing mathematics on them. For all intents and purposes, a Player's stats are to be considered inherent aspects of their being.
Rule 9: Actions which are within the bounds of the rules as written -- at the time the action is taken -- are to be considered Legal and everything that falls outside those bounds is to be considered Illegal. Illegal actions may be taken at the risk of a FAULT.
Rule 10: Taken Illegal actions may be called out by another Player by calling a FAULT on that Player's Illegal Action. When a FAULT is declared, the Player who called the FAULT -- henceforth the Fault-caller -- and the Player(s) who is/are the target of the FAULT --henceforth the Guilty -- are to go to a new channel (#court) wherein the Fault-caller may make their case as to what the Guilty has/have done in reference to their Illegal Actions Taken. The outcome of a FAULT may end in one of three ways; The Fault-caller is in the wrong, The Guilty is/are in the wrong, or No one is in the wrong. In the case that a party is found to be in the wrong, they must pay recompense to the wronged party and rescind their Illegal Action. The decider of such outcomes is to be the holder of the title of Judge, which is passed from Player to Player based on alphabetical order (of the English language) of their names. In the event that a Fault-caller or Guilty are Judge, they must pass on their Judgeship before participating in the FAULT. Participation in a FAULT is mandatory once it has been called.
Rule 11: All proposals are to be in the form of 'Proposal n: [action]' Where n is a number assigned to the proposal, these numbers should be in a strictly rising sequence in which 1 is the number of the first proposal and every other proposal having a number exactly 1 larger than the previous, and [action] is the description of what should happen in the game, for example 'Proposal 2: Add a rule containing "Every player should own a computer to be able to access Discord".' Anything that does not follow this form is considered to not be a legal proposal.
Rule 0: If two rules are found to be in direct conflict with each other such that only one of them may be partially or fully followed without breaking the rules, the one with the larger number is considered to be void in the conflicting parts.
For this purpose, each rule is to be assigned a number. This rule is to be assigned the number 0, all other rules are to be assigned the numbers they are currently labeled as on Github, and every new rule that is added is to be assigned a number 1 larger than the previous largest rule number.
Rule 12: A proposal may be used to cause a game action to happen. Whether the action takes place is to be determined by a majority vote as outlined in other rules. For this purpose game actions are considered to be
-adding a new rule or rules
-changing an existing rule or rules
-removing an existing rule or rules
-appointing an office or offices. If the office in question is currently occupied, the current owner of the title will lose it and it is transferred to the person appointed
For this purpose offices are considered to be
-judge
-scribe
New game actions and offices may be defined in other rules.
Rule 13: In the event that a new scribe is appointed, the new scribe may edit the hyperlink in rule 5 to point elsewhere, on the condition that all the rules are transferred from the old location to the new one exactly (other than this change to the hyperlink). This is to prevent the game from locking up due to an unavailable scribe.
Rule 14: A rule or other game object may compel a player to take a player action. If this happens, it is considered to have happened automatically regardless of whether the player actually completes the action manually or not. A player may add conditionals and automation to their actions by declaring so. An automated action is again considered to have happened regardless of whether the player actually does it or not.
A player action is considered to be
-voting
-submitting a proposal
More player actions may be defined in other rules.
Rule 15: Creation of a Tags system is to take place to allow logical constructs and Players to be categorized based on the Tags assigned to them. As with Stats, Tags are to be considered an inherent part of the Player's/construct's being.
Rule 16: Multiple proposals may be made at one time by proposing a BILL.  In making a proposal, players may use the form 
Proposal [n] BILL: 
[n].[a]: [action]
[n].[b]: [action]
...
[n].[z]: [action]
Where [n] is the proposal number as described in rule 11, [a], [b], and [z] are lowercase letters of the English Alphabet in sequential order, '...' signifies that a variable number of actions may be proposed in this way, so long as there are at least 2 and no more than 26 actions in a single BILL, and [action] is an action to be taken as described in rule 11.
If a BILL proposal passes, all actions defined within it are taken sequentially, starting at [n].[a].
Rule 17: Should Proposals 18 and 19 pass, the creation of the "Contractor" Tag. Contractors hold agency over a Player's/construct's actions as descibed in Proposal 18. A Player or Construct -- Henceforth collectively referred to as an Actor or Actors -- may only hold such agency if given the Contractor Tag. Should Proposals 18 or 19 be rejected, this Proposal is to be considered rescinded.
Rule 18: A currency called cookies is added to the game. The symbol for cookies is :cookie: and the name for a single unit is a cookie. Each player has a non-negative integer describing the number of cookies they own. These are tracked publicly on https://github.com/lare290/KAD_Nomic/blob/main/Cookies. The starting amount of cookies for each existing player is 0, and each new player has 0 cookies as well.
Rule 19: Cookies may be traded between players. Only the consent of the giving party is required; therefore anyone may transfer any number of their cookies to any other player. The number transferred is subtracted from the giving party's cookie total and added to the receiving party's total; However, if the giving party does not have as many cookies as required, the transaction fails. Giving cookies to another player is considered a player action.
Rule 20: Adding any number of cookies to any player is considered a game action.
Rule 21: Whenever a proposal passes, the player to have proposed earns 1 cookie. However, if the proposal is a bill with n sections, the player earns n cookie.
Rule 22: A player may spend any number of cookies in their possession to gain that many extra votes, henceforth referred to as cookie votes. Buying a cookie vote this way is a player action. When voting using cookie votes, it has to be declared explicitly; Cookie votes may not be used with the usual emoji voting system. Each cookie vote is only usable once; Rescinded cookie votes are not refunded. Cookie votes may only be used on proposals, they may not be used on elections. If a proposal has at least one active cookie vote for or against it, it will not automatically pass in any situation; It will only pass at the end of the voting period if it has enough votes.
Rule 23: A player may rescind their votes and cookie votes for proposals and elections as long as the proposal or election is active. This is considered a player action.
Rule 24: A player may remove any proposal they have made as long as it is active. All cookie votes that have been used on it are lost. Removing a proposal is a player action.
